# The first International Workshop on Ethics and Bias of Artificial Intelligence in Clinical Applications (EBAIC 2023) 
# Tutorial/Hackathon

## Track II: Medical Imaging 
<p align="justify">AI fairness in medical image analysis is a critical aspect in the development of fair AI and deep learning models in healthcare settings. For instance, an accurate and reliable segmentation of medical images is essential for precise disease diagnosis, personalized treatment planning, and effective patient monitoring. However, when fairness is not adequately addressed, these AI models can inadvertently perpetuate biases and disparities in healthcare delivery. Fairness in medical image segmentation ensures that the AI algorithms do not discriminate against individuals based on their race, gender, socioeconomic status, or any other demographic factors. It aims to provide equitable healthcare outcomes for all patients, irrespective of their background or characteristics.</p>

<p align="justify">Upholding fairness in AI models for medical image segmentation is not only an ethical imperative but also crucial for building trust in AI systems within the medical community and among patients. Transparent and accountable AI algorithms, coupled with comprehensive data collection and evaluation, can help identify and rectify biases present in the training data or the algorithmic decision-making process. This iterative process of refinement and evaluation ensures that AI models produce consistent and equitable results, contributing to the overall quality and fairness of healthcare delivery. The current <strong>Tutorial/Hackathon</strong> mainly aims to provide hands-on-practices in building fair and unbiased deep learning image segmentation in knee/hip bony anatomy segmentation using plain radiographs.Further inforamtion is available at <a href="https://ieeeichi.github.io/ICHI2023/workshops.html" target="_blank">here</a>.</p>

### Value of the Data
+ <p align="justify"><strong>Extensive Coverage:</strong> The current textual dataset comprises over 69,000 scientific abstracts from PubMed, providing a comprehensive collection of research on total joint arthroplasty (TJA) from the year 2000 to 2022, with bi-monthly updates from new abstracts that will be published at PubMed.</p>
+ <p align="justify"><strong>Providing Invaluable Information:</strong> Individual scientists from different disciplines will delve into this dataset, gaining new insights and enhance their understanding of joint diseases, ultimately contributing to improved patient care and clinical outcomes in TJA. </p>
+ <p align="justify"><strong>Open Access for Scientific Research:</strong> Making this dataset publicly and freely available will foster open scientific research in the field of TJA.</p>
+ <p align="justify"><strong>Supporting Evidence-Based Medicine</strong> The HexAI-TJAtxt empowers researchers and clinicians to make evidence-based decisions, facilitating literature reviews, meta-analyses, and systematic reviews related to TJA. </p>
+ <p align="justify"><strong>Offering Interdisciplinary Research:</strong> The HexAI-TJAtxt dataset encourages collaboration and knowledge exchange between researchers from different disciplines. Orthopedic surgeons, geneticists, epidemiologists, data scientists, AI scientists, and other experts can explore the dataset together, fostering interdisciplinary research and facilitating a holistic understanding of TJA. </p>
+ <p align="justify"><strong>Facilitating Rapid Text Analytics:</strong> The HexAI-TJAtxt dataset offers an opportunity for computational text analytics on a large-scale scientific literature. Researchers can employ natural language processing (NLP) techniques, machine learning algorithms, and other computational tools to extract valuable insights, discover patterns, and identify novel associations within the dataset, in a timely fashion. </p>

### The proposed pipeline to build the HexAI-TJAtxt textual dataset
